<h2 id="section-title">Deploying OpenVidu on premises</h2>
<hr>

- **[Deployment instructions](#deployment-instructions)**
    - [1) Prerequisites](#1-prerequisites)
    - [2) Deployment](#2-deployment)
    - [3) Configuration](#3-configuration)
    - [4) Execution](#4-execution)
    - [5) Administration](#5-administration)
- **[Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)**

---

## Deployment instructions

OpenVidu is deployed in production as a set of **Docker** containers managed with **Docker Compose**.<br>
You can deploy OpenVidu in **any modern Linux distribution**.

This procedure installs the following services:

- **OpenVidu Server (openvidu-server)**: this is the brain of OpenVidu platform. In charge of the signaling plane.
- **Kurento Media Server (kms)**: this is the hearth of the OpenVidu platform. In charge of media plane.
- **Coturn (coturn)**: server used to allow media communications with browsers in certain special networks.
- **Redis (redis)**: database to manage users in Coturn server.
- **Nginx (nginx)**: a reverse proxy used to configure SSL certificate and to allow both Openvidu Server and the Application to be served in the standard https port (443).
- **Videoconference Application (app)**: OpenVidu Call application or any other application. Can be disabled.

> **NOTE 1** : Docker basic knowledge is not required, but recommended. If you are completely new to Docker and containers, take a few minutes to read the official [Docker _Get started_](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/){:target="_blank"} documentation.

> **NOTE 2** : instructions below are intended for production environments. For development environments it is recommended to use this simple Docker image that wraps everything necessary to work inside your network in just a single container: [openvidu/openvidu-server-kms](https://hub.docker.com/r/openvidu/openvidu-server-kms){:target="_blank"}

### 1) Prerequisites

- **[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server){:target="_blank"}**

- **[Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/){:target="_blank"}**. NOTE: install docker-compose from the link (official Docker site) as minimum version `1.24` is required.

- **Opened ports in the server**

    - **22 TCP**: to connect using SSH to admin OpenVidu.
    - **80 TCP**: if you select Let's Encrypt to generate an SSL certificate this port is used by the generation process.
    - **443 TCP**: OpenVidu server and application are published in standard https port.
    - **3478 TCP+UDP**: used by TURN server to resolve clients IPs.
    - **40000 - 57000 TCP+UDP**: used by Kurento Media Server to establish media connections.
    - **57001 - 65535 TCP+UDP**: used by TURN server to establish relayed media connections.<br><br>

   Please take care to close ports not mentioned above to block access to some of the internal services of OpenVidu platform (like Redis). For example, you can configure public/private ports in any cloud platform ([OpenStak security groups](https://docs.openstack.org/horizon/latest/user/configure-access-and-security-for-instances.html#), [AWS security groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-security-groups.html), etc..) or installing [UFW](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/bionic/en/man8/ufw.8.html) with the following configuration:

```
ufw allow ssh
ufw allow 80/tcp
ufw allow 443/tcp
ufw allow 3478/tcp
ufw allow 3478/udp
ufw allow 40000:57000/tcp
ufw allow 40000:57000/udp
ufw allow 57001:65535/tcp
ufw allow 57001:65535/udp
ufw enable
```

- **Configure a domain name**: OpenVidu is deployed using HTTPS because it is mandatory to use WebRTC. Then, if you do not have a domain name, an autogenerated SSL certificate will be used and an ugly warning will appear to your users when enter to your site. And of course you can suffer a man-in-the-middle attack. So it is recommeded that you configure a domain name pointing to your machine's public IP. A valid SSL certificate can be automatically generated using Let's Encrypt in the installation process. If you already have a valid SSL certificate of your own, it also can be configured.

<br>

---

### 2) Deployment

You need root permissions to deploy OpenVidu.

```bash
sudo su
```

The recommended folder to install OpenVidu is **`/opt`**. Every other instruction in the documentation regarding on premises deployment assumes this installation path.

```bash
cd /opt
```

Now execute the following command to download and run the installation script.

<p style="text-align: start">
<code id="code-2">curl https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/aws.openvidu.io/install_openvidu_latest.sh | bash</code>
<button id="btn-copy-2" class="btn-xs btn-primary btn-copy-code hidden-xs" data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="button"
                              title="Copy to Clipboard">Copy</button>
</p>

This will download all required files into `openvidu` folder and will show this message with basic instructions:

```html
Openvidu Platform successfully installed.

1. Go to openvidu folder:
$ cd openvidu

2. Configure OPENVIDU_DOMAIN_OR_PUBLIC_IP and OPENVIDU_SECRET in .env file:
$ nano .env

3. Start OpenVidu
$ ./openvidu start

For more information, check readme.md
```

> To deploy a fixed version, including previous ones, replace `latest` with the desired version number.<br>
> For example: <code>curl https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/aws.openvidu.io/install_openvidu_<strong>2.13.0</strong>.sh | bash</code>

<br>

---

### 3) Configuration

OpenVidu Platform configuration is specified in the **`.env`** file with environment variables.

- You _must_ give a value to properties **`OPENVIDU_DOMAIN_OR_PUBLIC_IP`** and **`OPENVIDU_SECRET`**. Default empty values will fail.
- You can change the **`CERTIFICATE_TYPE`** if you have a valid domain name. Setting this property to `letsencrypt` will automatically generate a valid certificate for you (it is required to set property `LETSENCRYPT_EMAIL`). Or if for any unknown reason you prefer to use your own certificate, set the property to `owncert` and place the certificate files as explained.
- All other configuration properties come with sane defaults. You can go through them and change whatever you want. Visit [OpenVidu Server configuration](reference-docs/openvidu-config/){:target="_blank"} for further information.

The **`.env`** file is pretty self-explanatory. It looks like this:

```bash
# OpenVidu configuration
# ----------------------
# Documentation: https://docs.openvidu.io/en/stable/reference-docs/openvidu-config/

# NOTE: This file doesn't need to quote assignment values, like most shells do.
# All values are stored as-is, even if they contain spaces, so don't quote them.

# Domain name. If you do not have one, the public IP of the machine.
# For example: 198.51.100.1, or openvidu.example.com
OPENVIDU_DOMAIN_OR_PUBLIC_IP=

# OpenVidu SECRET used for apps to connect to OpenVidu server and users to access to OpenVidu Dashboard
OPENVIDU_SECRET=

# Certificate type:
# - selfsigned:  Self signed certificate. Not recommended for production use.
#                Users will see an ERROR when connected to web page.
# - owncert:     Valid certificate purchased in a Internet services company.
#                Please put the certificates files inside folder ./owncert
#                with names certificate.key and certificate.cert
# - letsencrypt: Generate a new certificate using letsencrypt. Please set the
#                required contact email for Let's Encrypt in LETSENCRYPT_EMAIL
#                variable.
CERTIFICATE_TYPE=selfsigned

# If CERTIFICATE_TYPE=letsencrypt, you need to configure a valid email for notifications
LETSENCRYPT_EMAIL=user@example.com

...
```

#### Videoconference application

By default, the [OpenVidu Call](demos/openvidu-call/){:target="_blank"} application is deployed alongside OpenVidu Platform. It is accessible in the URL:

```console
https://openvidu_domain_or_public_ip/
```

This application is defined in file `docker-compose.override.yml`. To disable OpenVidu Call application, you can delete the file `docker-compose.override.yml` (or just rename it in case you want to enable it again in the future).

You can configure any other application updating the content of `docker-compose.override.yml` to use any other Docker container, with the following requirements:

- Application server port must be binded to 5442 in the host, as this port is used by NGINX to publish your app in the default HTTPS port (443).
- The app must be served in plain HTTP as NGINX is the responsible of managing SSL certificate, so disable HTTPS and SSL in your app.
- Application has to know OpenVidu Server URL. You can use the environment variables ${OPENVIDU_DOMAIN_OR_PUBLIC_IP} and ${OPENVIDU_SECRET} in `docker-compose.override.yml` file.
- The application and OpenVidu platform are deployed in the same domain. For that reason, the following URLs are reserved for OpenVidu and you cannot use them in the application:
    - `/api/`
    - `/openvidu/`
    - `/dashboard/`
    - `/recordings/`

<br>

---

### 4) Execution

To start OpenVidu Platform (and the application if enabled) you can execute this command:

```
./openvidu start
```

All docker images for services will be downloaded (only the first time) and executed.

The first part of the log shows how docker-compose command executes all services:

```
Creating openvidu-docker-compose_coturn_1          ... done
Creating openvidu-docker-compose_app_1             ... done
Creating openvidu-docker-compose_kms_1             ... done
Creating openvidu-docker-compose_nginx_1           ... done
Creating openvidu-docker-compose_redis_1           ... done
Creating openvidu-docker-compose_openvidu-server_1 ... done
```

Then, `openvidu-server` service logs are shown. When OpenVidu Platform is ready you will see this message:

```
----------------------------------------------------

   OpenVidu Platform is ready!
   ---------------------------

   * OpenVidu Server: https://server/

   * OpenVidu Dashboard: https://server/dashboard/

----------------------------------------------------
```

You can press `Ctrl+C` to come back to the shell and OpenVidu will be executed in the background.

#### Available services

- Consume [OpenVidu REST API](reference-docs/REST-API/){:target="_blank"} through `https://server/`
- If the [application](#videoconference-application) is enabled, it will also be available at `https://server/`
- You can open OpenVidu Dashboard to verify everything is working as expected at `https://server/dashboard/` with credentials:
    - user: OPENVIDUAPP
    - pass: the value of OPENVIDU_SECRET in `.env` file

<br>

---

### 5) Administration

Run the following commands to manage OpenVidu Platform service:

- Start OpenVidu

        ./openvidu start

- Stop OpenVidu

        ./openvidu stop

- Restart OpenVidu

        ./openvidu restart

- Show logs of OpenVidu

        ./openvidu logs

> To change current configuration, you just need to update `.env` configuration file with the new desired values and run `./openvidu restart` command.

<br>

---

## Troubleshooting

### Configuration errors

If there's any error with the configuration, a report detailing which configuration property has issues and a step-by-step guide to fix it will be immediately shown by OpenVidu. The report will be similar to this:

```console
Configuration errors
--------------------

* Property OPENVIDU_SECRET is not set. Cannot be empty.
* Property OPENVIDU_DOMAIN_OR_PUBLIC_IP is not set. Cannot be empty


Fix config errors
---------------

1) Return to shell pressing Ctrl+C
2) Set correct values in '.env' configuration file
3) Restart OpenVidu with:

    $ ./openvidu restart
```

### Docker compose

To solve any other issue, it is important to understand how is OpenVidu executed. 

OpenVidu is executed as a docker-compose file. The commands executed by the script are the standard docker-compose commands, so internally they just do:

- start
    - `$ docker-compose up -d`
    - `$ docker-compose logs -f openvidu-server`
- stop
    - `$ docker-compose down` 
- restart
    - `$ docker-compose down` 
    - `$ docker-compose up -d`
    - `$ docker-compose logs -f openvidu-server`
- logs
    - `$ docker-compose logs -f openvidu-server`
 
<br>
As you can see, logs of `openvidu-server` service are shown when platform is started or restarted. This log contains the most important information for the OpenVidu execution.

### Show service logs

Take a look to service logs to see what happened. First, see openvidu-server logs:

```
./openvidu logs
```

You can also see all service logs together: 

```
docker-compose logs -f
```

Or you can inspect one by one the other services:

```
docker-compose logs -f kms
docker-compose logs -f nginx
docker-compose logs -f coturn
docker-compose logs -f redis
docker-compose logs -f app
```

### Review the configuration

Sometimes we may have a typo when writing a property name. For this reason, openvidu-server prints in the log all the configuration properties you have set in `.env` file and the default values for all other configuration properties. In that way, you can double check what openvidu-server actually *sees*.

```console
Configuration properties
---------------------  
* CERTIFICATE_TYPE=selfsigned
* OPENVIDU_CDR=false
* OPENVIDU_CDR_PATH=/opt/openvidu/cdr
* OPENVIDU_DOMAIN_OR_PUBLIC_IP=my.domain.com
* OPENVIDU_RECORDING=false
* OPENVIDU_RECORDING_AUTOSTOP-TIMEOUT=120
* OPENVIDU_RECORDING_COMPOSED-URL=

...
```

### Change log level of the services

To change the level of OpenVidu logs (***openvidu-server*** docker service) change the property `OV_CE_DEBUG_LEVEL` in configuration file `.env`.

To change the level of Kurento Media Server logs (***kms*** docker service) change the property `KMS_DEBUG_LEVEL` in configuration file `.env`. For more information about possible values visit [Kurento Debug Logging](https://doc-kurento.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/logging.html){:target="_blank"}.

### Change Kurento Media Server docker image

OpenVidu and Kurento Media Server evolve at a different pace. Sometimes, it is possible that a new KMS is released but OpenVidu is not still updated. In that case, if you hit a bug that might be solved in the last KMS version, you can test if just updating KMS fixes your issue. `KMS_IMAGE` property allows you to specify the new KMS image in configuration file `.env`.

<br>

<script src="js/copy-btn.js"></script>
